MTL-1851 Update Manual Wipe (#2068)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/wipe_ncn_disks_for_reinstallation.md

# Wipe NCN Disks for Reinstallation

> This page details how to wipe NCN disks, this page uses the same wipe commands that the automatic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page details how to wipe NCN disks. This page uses the same wipe commands that the automatic
```

> wipe uses. However this page accounts for running services that are present on a running CSM NCN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wipe uses. However, this page accounts for running services that are present on a running CSM NCN.
```

* Adopting new disks that are not bare.
* Doing a fresh install.

> For wiping Linux on an NCN that was recently adopted from another place, where a previous OS is installed, the [basic wipe](#basic-wipe) is sufficient for clean slating that node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For wiping Linux on an NCN with a previously installed OS, the [basic wipe](#basic-wipe) is sufficient.
```

## Basic Wipe

This wipe erases the magic bits on the disk to prevent them from being recognized and making them ready for deployment, as well as removing the common volume groups.

> 1. (`ncn#`) List the disks for verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. List the disks for verification.
```

    ```bash

>     disks_to_wipe="$(lsblk -l -o SIZE,NAME,TYPE,TRAN | grep -E '(raid|'"$metal_transports"')' | sort -u | awk '{print "/dev/"$2}' | tr '\n' ' ' | sed 's/ *$//')"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ncn# disks_to_wipe="$(lsblk -l -o SIZE,NAME,TYPE,TRAN | grep -E '(raid|'"$metal_transports"')' | sort -u | awk '{print "/dev/"$2}' | tr '\n' ' ' | sed 's/ *$//')"
```

    ```

> 1. (`ncn#`) Wipe the disks and the RAIDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wipe the disks and the RAIDs.
```

    ```bash

>     for disk in $disks_to_wipe; do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ncn# for disk in $disks_to_wipe; do
```

>         wipefs --all --force ${disk}* 2> /dev/null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             wipefs --all --force ${disk}* 2> /dev/null
```

>     done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         done
```

    The `wipefs` command may fail if no labeled disks are found, which is an indication of a larger problem.

> 1. On all NCNs, remove the volume groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the volume groups on all NCNs.
```

> 1. (`ncn#`) On all NCNs, remove the volume groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On all NCNs, remove the volume groups.
```

   > ***NOTE*** The Ceph volume group will only exist on storage-nodes, but this code snippet will work on all NCNs.

    ```bash

>     local ceph_vgs='vg_name=~ceph*'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ceph_vgs='vg_name=~ceph*'
```

>     local metal_vgs='vg_name=~metal*'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    metal_vgs='vg_name=~metal*'
```

>     for volume_group in $doomed_ceph_vgs $doomed_metal_vgs; do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for volume_group in ${ceph_vgs} ${metal_vgs}; do
```

>         vgremove -f -v --select $volume_group -y >/dev/null 2>&1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             vgremove -f -v --select $volume_group -y >/dev/null 2>&1
```

>     done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         done
```

    ```

<a name="advanced-wipe"></a>

## Advanced Wipe

> An advanced wipe includes handling storage-node specific items before running the [basic wipe](#basic-wipe).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An advanced wipe includes handling storage-node-specific items before running the [basic wipe](#basic-wipe).
```

> 1. On storage nodes, stop Ceph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop Ceph on all of the storage nodes.
```

> 1. (`ncn-s#`) On storage-nodes, stop Ceph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On storage-nodes, stop Ceph.
```

        ncn-s# cephadm rm-cluster --fsid $(cephadm ls|jq -r '.[0].fsid') --force
        ```

> 1. On storage nodes, make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running on the storage nodes.
```

> 1. (`ncn-s#`) On storage nodes, make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On storage nodes, make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running.
```

    Examine the output. There should be no running `ceph-osd` processes or containers.

1. Perform the [Basic Wipe](#basic-wipe) procedure.

<a name="full-wipe"></a>

## Full-Wipe

> This section walks a user through cleanly stopping all running services that require partitions as well as completely scrubbing and removing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section walks a user through cleanly stopping all running services that require partitions, as well as completely scrubbing and removing
```

> the system.

Reviewer: Removing the system?

Reviewer: Sorry, I should clarify. My concern isn't the word system vs node. It just seems like this procedure doesn't do either. It scrubs the node, sure. I guess it removes the node from the Ceph cluster or the Kubernetes cluster. If that's the removal intended here, I'd state that instead "removing the node from the Ceph or Kubernetes cluster (as appropriate for the node type)."

Author: I changed it again.

> This does not zero disks, this will ensure that all disks look RAW on the next reboot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does not zero disks; this will ensure that all disks look raw on the next reboot.
```

***IMPORTANT*** For each step, pay attention to whether the command is to be run on a master node, storage node, or worker node. If
wiping a different type of node than what a step specifies, then skip that step.

> 1. (`ncn-w#`) Reset Kubernetes **on worker nodes ONLY**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reset Kubernetes **on worker nodes ONLY**.
```

>    This will stop `kubelet`, underlying containers, and remove the contents of `/var/lib/kubelet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This will stop `kubelet`, stop underlying containers, and remove the contents of `/var/lib/kubelet`.
```

        ncn-w# crictl stop <container id from the CONTAINER column>
        ```

> 1. (`ncn-m#`) Reset Kubernetes **on master nodes ONLY**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reset Kubernetes **on master nodes ONLY**.
```

1. Reset Kubernetes **on master nodes ONLY**.

>     This will stop `kubelet`, underlying containers, and remove the contents of `/var/lib/kubelet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This will stop `kubelet`, stop underlying containers, and remove the contents of `/var/lib/kubelet`.
```

       ncn-m# crictl stop <container id from the CONTAINER column>
       ```

> 1. (`ncn-s#`) Stop Storage-CEPH, run the [advanced wipe](#advanced-wipe) but stop when it mentions the "basic wipe" and return here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop Storage-Ceph, run the [advanced wipe](#advanced-wipe), but stop when it mentions the "basic wipe". Then return here.
```

        ncn-w# umount -v /var/lib/kubelet /var/lib/sdu /run/containerd /var/lib/containerd /run/lib-containerd /var/opt/cray/sdu/collection-mount /var/lib/admin-tools /var/lib/s3fs_cache /var/lib/containerd
        ```

> 1. (`ncn#`) Stop `cray-sdu-rda` on **all node types** (master, storage, or worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop `cray-sdu-rda` on **all node types** (master, storage, or worker).
```

        7741d50966259410298bb4c3210e6665cdbd57a82e34e467d239f519ae3f17d4
        ```

> 1. (`ncn-m#`) Remove `etcd` device **on master nodes ONLY**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove `etcd` device **on master nodes ONLY**.
```

        Command failed.
        ```

> 1. (`ncn-m#`) Remove `etcd` volumes **on master nodes ONLY**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove `etcd` volumes **on master nodes ONLY**.
```
